Alright, so what I have done is made a file where there are three columns:



1. Data Field

This is a column with the names of the columns listed in each year's various files in the NTDB RDS. I opened each file individually, listed the unique column names, and saved them with the other two columns (see below). This was done using Python (the primary coding language I use, not manually done). In addition to these instructions, I will send you a file with the User Manuals listed inside the files downloaded from the NTDB we were given access to. A single .pdf for 2007 - 2016 describes what each of these data fields means. Some of these data fields do not change year to year, except a few data fields (I will include a graph in the file that shows what years there is a change in the total number of data fields in that year to give some indication that you should look out for new/ changes in data fields. Starting in 2017, there are individual .pdf User Manuals for every year. From what I can tell, there are substantially fewer changes year to year after the significant changes they made in 2017. However, the leap that happened in 2017 is substantial from 2016 and also where the new ICD10 code transition occurs.


2. Include (Y/N)

This is the field that *YOU* will change. I have already filled in this column with 0's. What I ask you to do is change data fields that you think will be relevant/ interesting for our project and just change those values to 1. (0 = Do not include/ not relevant for our analyses; 1 = Include this data field for potential future use). If you prefer to use something other than the number 1 to indicate that you want to include the data field, just let me know what it is and keep it consistent :)


3. Year

Self-explanatory, this tells you the year associated with the data field. Many repeats will exist from some years to the next. From what I can tell, the definition of each column remains the same. If the definition of a data field changes, then the name of the data field itself/ column also changes. So as you go through, if you see something you've already marked, then you can rest assured it is indeed the same data field and treat it the same way you marked it the last time you encountered it, unless there are only specific years you want those data fields for (not sure what this scenario would be but it is an option).



Files I will be sending to you:

- julian_instructions.txt --> include instructions on what to do (open with any word processor)
- julian_datafields.csv --> data file that you will change (probably want to open with something like Microsoft Excel, Google Sheets, etc.)
- TQP PUT User Manual *insert years* .pdf--> This will be good to have open side-by-side with the.csv file so that you can see the definition of each data field as you go through and make decisions.
